

# Clinical Aureobasidium isolates are more fungicide sensitive than agricultural isolates


## Description
Fungicide applications in agriculture and medicine can promote the evolution of resistant, pathogenic fungi, which is a growing problem for disease management in both settings. Here, we compared 16 clinical and 30 agricultural *Aureobasidium* isolates based on whole genome data and by fungicide sensitivity testing. Our phylogenetic analyses determined that seven of the 16 clinical isolates did not belong to the species *A. pullulans*. Interestingly, the clinical *Aureobasidium* isolates were significantly more fungicide sensitive than isolates from agricultural samples, which hints at selection for fungicide tolerance in agricultural ecosystems. This Git repository contains all the information need to reproduce the findings of the publication "Clinical *Aureobasidium* isolates are more fungicide sensitive than agricultural isolates" *(After Publication add citation here)*.

## Content

- **apul-clinical.Rproj** : *(R project)*
- **code:** *(folder)* contains SPAdes and phame control files and R-markdown report
- **data:** *(folder)* contains raw data such as isolate information, MIC50 values and sub folders. 
  - **221111_phame_all_final_RaxML:** *(sub folder)* empty; the output form SPAdes and PhaME can be saved here. 
  - **ref:** *(sub folder)* empty; the downloaded reference genome and corresponding annotations can be saved here.
  - **raw_reads:** *(sub folder)* empty; the raw reads can be saved here after retrieving them.
- **figures:** *(folder)* empty; the figures of the R-script will be saved here. 


## Preparations
The reference genomes as well as the raw reads form the 46 isolates are not available on this git repository but can be found elsewhere and downloaded separately. Following it is described where to find those files and where they should be saved for a smooth running of the code. 

### Downloading raw read data
The raw reads for this project are stored at the [NCBI Sequence Read Archive (SRA)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra). The agricultural isolate reads can be found under the accession number SAMN31580265 and the clinical isolates under SAMN31634356. The empty folder *raw_reeds* in *data* is the location to save those files. **Pleas download the reads and save them in this folder before continuing**.  

### Downloading referece files

The reference genome NBB 7.2.2 [[1]](#1) and its annotations are available at [mycocosm](https://mycocosm.jgi.doe.gov) [here](https://genome.jgi.doe.gov/portal/AurpulNBB1/download/AurpulNBB1_AssemblyScaffolds_Repeatmasked.fasta.gz) and [here](https://genome.jgi.doe.gov/portal/AurpulNBB1/download/AurpulNBB1_GeneCatalog_20190122.gff3.gz), respectively. Both files should be unpacked and saved in the *ref* folder. Also, the name of the annotation file (AurpulNBB1_GeneCatalog_20190122.gff3) should be changed to  AurpulNBB1_AssemblyScaffolds_Repeatmasked.gff3 such that those two names match for the phame analysis. 

The other four full genome references [[2]](#2) can also be found at mycocosm. [*A. namibiae*](https://genome.jgi.doe.gov/portal/Aurpu_var_nam1/download/Aurpu_var_nam1_AssemblyScaffolds_Repeatmasked.fasta.gz), [*A. subglaciale*](https://genome.jgi.doe.gov/portal/Aurpu_var_sub1/download/Aurpu_var_sub1_AssemblyScaffolds_Repeatmasked.fasta.gz), [*A. melanogenum*](https://genome.jgi.doe.gov/portal/Aurpu_var_mel1/download/Aurpu_var_mel1_AssemblyScaffolds_Repeatmasked.fasta.gz) and [*A. pullulans*](https://genome.jgi.doe.gov/portal/Aurpu_var_pul1/download/Aurpu_var_pul1_AssemblyScaffolds_Repeatmasked.fasta.gz) are the corresponding fasta sequences. They should be downloaded and saved in the folder *221111_phame_all_final_RaxML* awaiting phame processing.

For more background on those *Aureobasidium* genomes, an overview of all genomes used in this project can be found [here](https://mycocosm.jgi.doe.gov/mycocosm/home/releases?flt=Aureobasidium)

## Running SPAdes
The first step of this project was to run the assembly toolkit SPAdes [[3]](#3) with our raw reads. To reproduce the data, please visit the [SPAdes git hub repository](https://github.com/ablab/spades). The program can be downloaded and run according to the instructions. A controlfile on how we run SPAdes can be found in the *code* folder with the name bash_assemblies.sh. 

The output of SPAdes are contig files for each isolate which should be saved in the folder *221111_phame_all_final_RaxML* and can later be used for PhaME.

## Running Phame
The second step was to run PhaME [[4]](#4), which provided us with a phylogenetic tree of all isolates. The same output can be generated by downloading and using PhaME on the previously described contig files. For this, please visit the [PhaME Git hub repository](https://github.com/LANL-Bioinformatics/PhaME) and follow the instructions. In the folder *code* our control file can be found (221111_phame_all_final_RaxML.ctl). We used *221111_phame_all_final_RaxML* as our working directory. Doing the same will allow for the R-scripts to properly source the correct files down the line. We used PhaME version number 1.0.2.

## R script
The R-script *All_trees_and_cluster.rmd* was used to produce the figures in the publication as well as to construct a meaningful clustering. Before running this script, the file locations and names form the data loading sections should be double checked for a correct input. For the analysis with R we used version 4.2.1. For the complete session information please take a look at the *All_trees_and_cluster.html*.

## Support
For correspondence please contact Florian M. Freimoser, Agroscope, Research Division Plant Protection, Route de Duillier 60, 1260 Nyon 1, Switzerland, florian.freimoser@agroscope.admin.ch


## Project status and contributing
This project has concluded. Further work on the SNP data output form PhaME is under process and will be published elsewhere. Contributions to improve reproducibility and smoothness are welcome. 

## Bibliography

<a id="1">[1]</a> 
Rueda-Mejia MP, Nägeli L, Lutz S, Hayes RD, Varadarajan AR, Grigoriev IV, et al. Genome, transcriptome and secretome analyses of the antagonistic, yeast-like fungus *Aureobasidium pullulans* to identify potential biocontrol genes. *Microb Cell* 2021; **8**: 184–202


<a id="2">[2]</a> 
Gostincar C, Ohm RA, Kogej T, Sonjak S, Turk M, Zajc J, et al. Genome sequencing of four *Aureobasidium pullulans* varieties: biotechnological potential, stress tolerance, and description of new species. *BMC Genomics* 2014; **15**: 549

<a id="3">[3]</a> 
Prjibelski A, Antipov D, Meleshko D, Lapidus A, Korobeynikov A. Using SPAdes *de novo* assembler. *Curr Protocols Bioinf* 2020; **70**: e102

<a id="4">[4]</a>
Shakya M, Ahmed SA, Davenport KW, Flynn MC, Lo C-C, Chain PSG. Standardized phylogenetic and molecular evolutionary analysis applied to species across the microbial tree of life. *Sci Rep* 2020; **10**: 1723


